## Final Data Paper

Final Data Paper (*40%*): The key assignment in this class will be a final data paper. The idea is to follow a similar format as the class, but on your own. Select a substantive concept or topic and then select an appropriate method for assessing and evaluating that concept (there could be many methods for a single concept, e.g., ideology could be assessed through multidimensional scaling, unfolding, natural language processing, latent variable models, or even deep learning algorithms). 

A completed assignment will be about 12-15 pages. As this is assignment is focused on proper empirical application, there need not be a lengthy theory section ending in generation of original hypotheses, though students can certainly take this approach if they wish. In addition to the application of the method in relation to the concept of interest, students will be required to submit replication materials associated with the paper all in a **single document** as either an R markdown document or a Jupyter Notebook, including: **the final paper, all R code, *which should be replicable with zero errors*, and any supporting/Appendix material**. Students may consult with me as much as they wish to help hone their topics and interests. Further, I will provide a great deal of guidance on methodological options for students as lot of these topics will be new to most students. I will ensure you have been exposed to the tools and detail necessary to effectively, efficiently, and ethically pair the proper method with a substantive topic of political interest. 

**A few essentials**: 12-15 pages, double-spaced, 12 point font, standard font, 1-inch margins, and a properly formatted reference list *with* in-text citations. You can select any reference style you wish (Chicago, APA, MLA, etc.); just be correct and consistent.
	
**Your final paper is due on Thursday, December 12.**
